[previous](query-dsl.md) | [parent](index.md)
---

# Co-routines

The RestHighLevelClient exposes asynchronous versions of most APIs that take a call back to process
the response when it comes back. Using this is kind of boiler plate heavy. 

Luckily, Kotlin has co-routines for asynchronous programming and this library provides co-routine 
friendly versions of these functions. These `suspend` functions work pretty much the same way as their 
synchronous version except they are marked as suspend and use a `SuspendingActionListener` that uses
Kotlin's `suspendCancellableCoroutine` to wrap the callback that the rest high level client expects.

As of Elasticsearch 7.5.0, all asynchronous calls return a `Cancellable` object that allows you to cancel
the task. Using `suspendCancellableCoRoutine` uses this and this means that if you have some failure
or abort a coroutine scope, all the running tasks are cancelled. 

If you use an asynchronous server framework such as Ktor or Spring Boot 2.x (in reactive mode), you'll
want to use the asynchronous functions.

To support co-routines, this project is using a 
[code generation plugin](https://github.com/jillesvangurp/es-kotlin-codegen-plugin) 
to generate the co-routine friendly versions of each of the
Rest High Level async functions. At this point most of them are covered. There are more than a hundred 
of these. 

As an example, here are three ways to use the reloadAnalyzers API:

```kotlin
// the synchronous version as provided by the RestHighLevel client
val ic = esClient.indices()
val response = ic.reloadAnalyzers(
  ReloadAnalyzersRequest("myindex"), RequestOptions.DEFAULT)

// the asynchronous version with a callback as provided by the
// RestHighLevel client
ic.reloadAnalyzersAsync(ReloadAnalyzersRequest("myindex"),
  RequestOptions.DEFAULT, object : ActionListener<ReloadAnalyzersResponse> {
  override fun onFailure(e: Exception) {
    println("it failed")
  }

  override fun onResponse(response: ReloadAnalyzersResponse) {
    println("it worked")
  }
})

runBlocking {
  // the coroutine friendly version using a function generated by the
  // code generator plugin this is a suspend version so we put it in
  // a runBlocking to get a coroutine scope use a more appropriate
  // scope in your own application of course.
  val response = ic.reloadAnalyzersAsync(
    ReloadAnalyzersRequest("myindex"), RequestOptions.DEFAULT)
}
```

## Development status

Co-routine support is still somewhat in flux in this library and there may be more changes
related to this in future versions as our code generator evolves. E.g. `Flow` seems like it 
could be useful when dealing with (scrolling) searches. Another topic of attention is using multiple
threads for asynchronous bulk indexing to improve throughput.

However, the generated async functions should be stable to use as is and are useful right now.


---

[previous](query-dsl.md) | [parent](index.md)

This Markdown is Generated from Kotlin code. Please don't edit this file and instead edit the [source file](https://github.com/jillesvangurp/es-kotlin-wrapper-client/tree/master/src/test/kotlin/io/inbot/eskotlinwrapper/manual/CoRoutinesManualTest.kt) from which this page is generated.